Trump Weighs Getting Involved in New York City Mayor’s Race

The possibility that the president will seek to intercede could inject an element of unpredictability into an already fractious contest.

By Nicholas FandosJeremy W. PetersMaggie Haberman and Katherine Rosman
Published Aug. 6, 2025Updated Aug. 7, 2025

President Trump may have moved out of New York City, but he has privately discussed whether to intercede in its fractious race for mayor to try to stop Zohran Mamdani, the Democratic nominee, according to eight people briefed on the discussions.

In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has quizzed a Republican congressman and New York businessmen about who in the crowded field of candidates, which includes Mayor Eric Adams and former Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, has the best chance of beating Mr. Mamdani, the leftist front-runner.

The president has been briefed by Mark Penn, a pollster who has worked for Bill and Hillary Clinton, and Andrew Stein, a former New York City Council president and decades-long friend of Mr. Trump, on a range of polling that showed Mr. Cuomo could still be competitive as an independent candidate. Both men have pushed Mr. Cuomo as the best candidate despite his loss in the Democratic primary, including in a recent Wall Street Journal op-ed. One of Mr. Penn’s firms did extensive work for a pro-Cuomo super PAC in the primary.

And in a previously undisclosed call in recent weeks, Mr. Trump spoke about the race directly with Mr. Cuomo, an old associate and foil, according to three people briefed on the call, who were not authorized to discuss it.

The possibility that Mr. Trump would somehow involve himself in New York politics could inject a new element of unpredictability into an already fractious contest. It remains far from certain how or if Mr. Trump will ultimately make his presence felt. And in recent weeks, some Republicans close to the administration have indicated that the president might simply sit it out.

But donors and allies of Mr. Adams and Mr. Cuomo have pined for weeks for the president to intervene, arguing that Mr. Trump, a lifelong New Yorker with strong views about how the city should be run, could play a role in consolidating the fractured anti-Mamdani vote behind a single opponent. This group strongly opposes Mr. Mamdani, a democratic socialist who outflanked Mr. Cuomo in the primary with a message about freezing rents and raising taxes on the rich.

Mr. Trump “loves New York and he’s worried about New York,” said John Catsimatidis, a billionaire Republican grocery and oil magnate. He said he had urged the president not to rush into any action, though.

“The only thing I’ve said to the president is see you in September,” Mr. Catsimatidis said. “In other words, let things sort themselves out.”

It is unclear what precisely Mr. Trump and Mr. Cuomo discussed, or who initiated the call. Mr. Cuomo has publicly denounced Mr. Trump, and the Justice Department had opened an investigation into Mr. Cuomo after House Republicans accused him of lying to Congress about his handling of the Covid pandemic. Their conversation came around the time that the former governor was privately discussing with supporters in New York whether to continue with his campaign, and publicly pushing Mr. Adams and other rivals such as the Republican nominee, Curtis Sliwa, to drop out.

White House officials declined multiple requests for comment.

After this article was published, Mr. Trump was asked by reporters at an event in the Oval Office if he had spoken with Mr. Cuomo. “I haven’t, no I haven’t,” he said.

Rich Azzopardi, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, declined to make the former governor available for comment. In a statement, he said that Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Trump “have not spoken in a while” but did not clarify what “a while” meant.

“As far as I know, they have not discussed the race,” Mr. Azzopardi wrote in the statement.
Cuomo and Trump, Two ‘Queens Boys,’ Go Way Back
President Trump has urged Andrew Cuomo to stay in the New York City mayor’s race. Here are seven moments when their paths crossed over the years.
Aug. 7, 2025

The prevailing view among Republicans is that Mr. Mamdani, if elected, would be a useful avatar of the left for the party to campaign against in the 2026 midterms. Some of the president’s own advisers began embracing that approach right after Mr. Mamdani’s victory over Mr. Cuomo, who had resigned as governor in 2021 amid allegations of sexual harassment. (He denied them.)

But Mr. Trump remains uniquely focused on the city, where he was born and raised and built a national persona as a real-estate developer. He still owns substantial property in New York, as do some of his close allies, and he has said publicly that he is concerned about Mr. Mamdani’s socialist-influenced politics.

“He loves New York and he loves politics, and when he talks to his friends, he doesn’t ask how the Yankees are doing,” said Stu Loeser, a former aide to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who spent millions of dollars to help Mr. Cuomo in the primary.

Mr. Loeser, who advises other wealthy New Yorkers who speak to the president, said of Mr. Trump, “His views are consistent with a lifelong New Yorker who has become a Florida resident but still reads The New York Post every day.”

Mr. Trump has aired some of his views publicly. In early July, he repeated baseless claims that Mr. Mamdani immigrated to the United States illegally and threatened to arrest him if he blocked immigration arrests in New York City. “I’m not going to let this Communist Lunatic destroy New York,” he said.

Mr. Mamdani would be among the most left-leaning mayors the city has seen in decades, but he has said he is not a communist.

A few weeks later, and just days after Mr. Penn’s polling presentation to the president, Mr. Trump told reporters he thought Mr. Cuomo should stay in the race. “He’s running against a communist,” he said. “I would think that he would have a good shot of winning.”

Mr. Trump is accustomed to holding a viselike grip over Republican primary races. But his power to directly shape a contest in a city where the electorate is heavily Democratic is less certain. One of the most effective tools Mr. Trump and his allies have at their disposal — using the influential pro-Trump media to bludgeon their opponents — may not have the same impact in a local New York race, even with Mr. Trump having increased his share of the vote in the city in 2024.

Even those in favor of Mr. Trump intervening acknowledge that any public endorsement or other effort to help one of the candidates could backfire in a city where he remains unpopular overall.

“The city is still not exactly a haven for Trump supporters,” said Sid Rosenberg, a conservative talk radio host who supports Mr. Trump. “I’m not sure if it bodes well for Curtis or Andrew or Eric to get Trump’s support publicly.”

Some of those who wish the president would get involved want him to help force one of the three other challengers — Mr. Adams, Mr. Cuomo or Mr. Sliwa — out of the race. As long as all three remain active, the thinking goes, they will split the votes of those who oppose Mr. Mamdani, further easing his path to the mayoralty.

Mr. Trump already put an imprint on the race earlier this year when his administration moved to dismiss federal corruption charges against Mr. Adams. The move ended the mayor’s legal jeopardy and cleared a path for him to run for re-election. But it badly hurt his standing with Democrats, prompting him to skip the primary to run as an independent. After Mr. Adams sought to work with the president on his anti-immigration crackdown, the Trump administration recently sued over New York’s “sanctuary city” policies.

Allies of Mr. Adams have argued Mr. Cuomo should drop out of the race. And Mr. Sliwa, who is not allied with Mr. Trump despite his party identification, has accused Mr. Adams of trying to force him from the race by encouraging the president to appoint Mr. Sliwa to a position in Washington. Mr. Sliwa, who faces long odds in a Democratic city, has said he has no interest.

Mr. Trump has taken steps to at least gather information that could help inform his next moves.

In a meeting at the White House in mid-July, Mr. Trump asked Representative Mike Lawler, a Republican from the New York City suburbs, about who would be the strongest candidate in a one-on-one contest with Mr. Mamdani, according to a person familiar with the conversation. The person said Mr. Trump cast doubt on Mr. Sliwa’s chances, said he personally liked Mr. Adams and indicated that he had always gotten along with Mr. Cuomo.

In the Oval Office days before his meeting with Mr. Lawler, Mr. Trump met with Mr. Stein and Mr. Penn.

They showed him Mr. Penn’s data arguing that Mr. Cuomo would be competitive with Mr. Mamdani in a head-to-head race, absent Mr. Adams, according to two people briefed on what took place. Reliable public polling on the race has been scarce, though other private polls have suggested Mr. Mamdani has a more comfortable lead.

Mr. Trump was noncommittal, according to one of the people briefed on the discussion. He told the men that Mr. Cuomo would be likely to manage the city better than the other candidates, but that whoever won would ultimately “have to work with” the Trump administration, the person said.

Mr. Stein declined comment. Mr. Penn also declined comment.

Nicholas Fandos is a Times reporter covering New York politics and government.

Jeremy W. Peters is a Times reporter who covers debates over free expression and how they impact higher education and other vital American institutions.

Maggie Haberman is a White House correspondent for The Times, reporting on President Trump.

Katherine Rosman covers newsmakers, power players and individuals making an imprint on New York City.